@section News in 9.0

Coordinater: Per Abrahamsen, 1994.

Alpha testers (in order of appearance): 
Volker Dobler @samp{<dobler@@etu.wiwi.uni-karlsruhe.de>},
Piet van Oostrum @samp{<piet@@cs.ruu.nl>}, 
Frederic Devernay @samp{<Frederic.Devernay@@sophia.inria.fr>}, 
Robert Estes @samp{<estes@@ece.ucdavis.edu>},
Berwin Turlach @samp{<berwin@@core.ucl.ac.be>},
Tim Carlson @samp{<imsgtcar@@mathfs.math.montana.edu>},
Peter Thiemann @samp{<thiemann@@provence.informatik.uni-tuebingen.de>},
Kevin Scott @samp{<scottkj@@prl.philips.co.uk>},
Lawrence R. Dodd @samp{<dodd@@roebling.poly.edu>},
Johan Van Biesen @samp{<vbiesen@@wins.uia.ac.be>},
Marc Gemis @samp{<makke@@wins.uia.ac.be>},
Michelangelo Grigni @samp{<mic@@cs.ucsd.edu>},
Kevin Scott @samp{<scottkj@@prl.philips.co.uk>},
Peter Paris @samp{<pparis@@bass.gmu.edu>},
Peter Barth @samp{<barth@@mpi-sb.mpg.de>},
Andy Piper @samp{<ajp@@eng.cam.ac.uk>},
Richard Stanton @samp{<stanton@@haas.berkeley.edu>},
Christoph Wedler @samp{<wedler@@fmi.uni-passau.de>},
Graham Gough @samp{<graham@@cs.man.ac.uk>},
and probably more.@refill

@itemize @bullet
@item
Made environments and sections selectable from the menu bar.

@item
Support Emacs comment conventions.  Comments starting with a single
@samp{%} are indented at @code{comment-column}.  Comments starting with
@samp{%%%} are indented at column 0.  Comments starting with
@samp{%%} are indented like ordinary text.  You can set the variables
@code{LaTeX-right-comment-regexp} and @code{LaTeX-left-comment-regexp}
to nil to disable this.  See also @code{LaTeX-ignore-comment-regexp}.
Rewrote it from Christoph Wedler @samp{<wedler@@fmi.uni-passau.de>} from
original code.

@item
@key{tab} and @key{lfd} will not indent code in @samp{verbatim}
environment if you set @code{LaTeX-indent-environment-check} to non-nil.
Thise was also first implemented by Christoph Wedler
@samp{<wedler@@fmi.uni-passau.de>}.  

@item
You can now get get custom indentation for various environments.  See
@code{LaTeX-indent-environment-list}.

@item
@kbd{C-c C-m left @key{ret}} new automatically inserts a matching
@samp{\right}.  See variables @code{TeX-left-right-braces},
@code{TeX-braces-default-association}, and
@code{TeX-braces-user-association}.  This feature was suggested by Jesse
@samp{<jes@@math.msu.edu>} and implemented by Berwin Turlach
@samp{<berwin@@core.ucl.ac.be>}.

@item
Don't automatically display the compilation buffer unless
@code{TeX-show-compilation} in non-nil.  Suggested by Stefan Schoef
@samp{Stefan.Schoef@@arbi.informatik.uni-oldenburg.de}. 

@item
Bundled @file{ltx-help.el}.  Press @kbd{C-h C-l} to get the
documentation for a LaTeX command.

@item
Fixed indentation of @samp{\left} and @samp{\right}.  Thanks to
Christoph Wedler @samp{<wedler@@fmi.uni-passau.de>}.

@item
Installation procedure changed.  @file{tex-site.el} is now intended to
survive AUC @TeX{} upgraded.  The distribution version only contains
autoloads (eliminating the need for @file{tex-load.el} , the
customization variables are moved to @file{tex.el}.  You should copy
those variables you need to customize from @file{tex.el} to
@file{tex-site.el}. 

@item
Made it possible to use absolute paths when including bibliographies or
style files.

@item
Fixed problem with parsing errors after running La@TeX{} on the region
from the menu.  Thanks to Peter Barth @samp{<barth@@mpi-sb.mpg.de>} for
finding this one.

@item
The file @file{doc/ref-card.texi} has been renamed to
@file{doc/tex-ref.texi} to avoid confusion with the reference card for
GNU Emacs.  Suggested by Michelangelo Grigni @samp{<mic@@cs.ucsd.edu>}.

@item
The @file{README}, @file{CHANGES} and @file{INSTALLATION} files are now
generated from chapters of this manual, to ensure they stay in sync.

@item
@kbd{M-@key{tab}} will now complete some macro arguments in addition to
macro names.  In particular, if you press @kbd{M-@key{tab}} after
@samp{\cite@{} or @samp{\ref@{} you will get completion for bibitems and
labels, respectively.

@item
Merged a number of files.  The major files are now @file{tex.el} for
plain @TeX{} and common support, @file{tex-buf.el} for running external
commands, and @file{latex.el} for La@TeX{} support.

@item
Unbundled @file{outln-18.el}.  Users of Emacs 18 or Lucid Emacs 19.9 or
earlier must get @file{outln-18.el} and install it as @file{outline.el}
if they want the outline commands to work.

@item
No longer bind @kbd{C-c @key{tab}} to @code{TeX-complete-symbol}.  Use
@kbd{M-@key{tab}} instead.

@item
Cleaned up the parser and parametrizised it.  Now you can add now types
of information to be maintained by the parser simply by calling
@code{TeX-auto-add-type}.  You still need to install the regexps with
@code{TeX-auto-add-regexp}. 

@item
Disable the automatic insertion of empty braces after macros with no
arguments in @code{LaTeX-math-mode}.  Added a variable
@code{TeX-insert-braces} to disable it everywhere. 

@item
Now complete with existing labels when asking for a label in a La@TeX{}
environment.  Suggested by Berwin Turlach
@samp{<berwin@@core.ucl.ac.be>}.
 
@item
The variables @code{TeX-private-macro}, @code{TeX-private-auto}, and
@code{TeX-private-style} are now initialized from the @samp{TEXINPUTS}
and @samp{BIBINPUTS} environment variables.
 
@item
@kbd{C-c C-f} and @kbd{C-c C-e} will now put the template around the
region if the region is active.

@item
Fixed @kbd{C-u C-c C-e} to handle environments ending with a star
(@samp{*}).  Reported by Berwin Turlach
@samp{<berwin@@core.ucl.ac.be>}.

@item
Don't use @code{with-output-to-temp-buffer} for compilation buffer.
Fixed by Frederic Devernay @samp{<Frederic.Devernay@@sophia.inria.fr>}.

@item
New function @code{TeX-command-buffer} (@kbd{C-c C-b}) to run a command
on the (visible part of) the current buffer.  Requested by several
people. 

@item
Bundled the latest @file{reporter.el}, added
@code{TeX-submit-bug-report} to menus.

@item
@code{TeX-insert-braces} now takes an argument like
@code{insert-parentheses}.  Thanks to Lawrence R. Dodd
@samp{<dodd@@roebling.poly.edu>}. 

@item
Fixed bug in @samp{\put} and @samp{\multiput} macros.  Thanks to Kevin
Scott @samp{<scottkj@@prl.philips.co.uk>}.

@item
Deleted @code{ams-latex-mode}, @code{slitex-mode}, and
@code{foiltex-mode}.  Instead, use @code{LaTeX-command-style} to
determine the name of the external command to use.

@item
Deleted @code{latex2e-mode}.  Instead set the @code{LaTeX-version}
variable.  This may be done automatically if you use
@samp{\documentclass} in the future.

@item
Fixed Lucid Emacs menu for @TeX{}info mode.  Thanks to Frederic Devernay
@samp{<Frederic.Devernay@@sophia.inria.fr>},

@item
Added support for @file{harvard.sty} by Berwin Turlach
@samp{<berwin@@core.ucl.ac.be>}.

@item
Filling will not let display math equations @samp{\[ ... \]} be on a
line by themselves.  Reported by Matthew Morley
@samp{<Matthew.Morley@@gmd.de>}. 

@item
Made @code{words-include-escapes} default to nil.  

@item
Made @code{TeX-expand-list} expansions case sensitive.  Thanks to Havard
Rue @samp{<Havard.Rue@@sima.sintef.no>}.

@item
Fixed error in calculating indentation for lines starting with a brace.
Thanks to Piet van Oostrum @samp{<piet@@cs.ruu.nl>}.

@item
Fixed bug in the @samp{addcontentsline}, @samp{newtheorem}, and
@samp{pagenumbering} macros reported by Berwin Turlach
@samp{<berwin@@core.ucl.ac.be>}.

@item
Doc fixes by Lawrence R. Dodd @samp{<dodd@@roebling.poly.edu>}.

@item
Indentation no longer fooled by @samp{\\@{},  Thanks to Peter Thiemann
@samp{<thiemann@@provence.informatik.uni-tuebingen.de>}.

@item
Bind @kbd{M-C-e} and @kbd{M-c-a} to @code{LaTeX-find-matching-end} and
@code{LaTeX-find-matching-begin}.  Suggested by Lawrence R. Dodd
@samp{<dodd@@roebling.poly.edu>}.

@item
Added variable @code{TeX-quote-after-quote} which causes
@code{TeX-insert-quote} to insert literal @samp{"} except when after
another @samp{"}, in which case it will expand to @code{TeX-open-quote}
or @code{TeX-close-quote}.  This code was contributed by Piotr Filip
Sawicki @samp{<pfs@@mimuw.edu.pl>}.

@item
Added support for Polish style files @file{plfonts.sty} and
@file{plhb.sty}, contributed by Piotr Filip
Sawicki @samp{<pfs@@mimuw.edu.pl>}.

@item
Added section with suggestions for how to handle European
character sets.

@item
Created workaround for bug in the regexp handler in some Emacs 18
versions and older versions of Lucid Emacs.  The workaround
means you cannot use space in the documentstyle command in Emacs and
Lucid Emacs earlier than version 19.9.

@item
@file{powerkey.el} is removed since the functionality is integrated in
GNU Emacs 

@item
@kbd{C-u "} now inserts four literal @samp{"}, not just one.  To insert
a single @samp{"} either press @key{"} twice or use @kbd{C-q "}.

@item
Allow non-string value for @code{outline-minor-map-prefix}.  Reported by
David Smith @samp{<maa507@@comp.lancs.ac.uk>}.

@item
Make the use of @code{write-file-hooks} more safe, and use
@code{local-write-file-hooks} when possible.  Suggested by David Smith
@samp{<maa507@@comp.lancs.ac.uk>}.

@item
Don't indent @samp{\begin@{verbatim@}} and @samp{\end@{verbatim@}},
since any space before @samp{\end@{verbatim@}} is significant.  Thanks to
Peter Thiemann @samp{<thiemann@@informatik.uni-tuebingen.de>} for the
patch.

@item
Show available fonts when you try to insert an non-existing font.
Suggested by David Smith @samp{<maa507@@comp.lancs.ac.uk>}.

@item
The @code{member} function in @file{tex-18.el} does not depend on
@code{TeX-member} now.  Thanks to Piet van Oostrum
@samp{<piet@@cs.ruu.nl>}. 

@item
Do not overwrite any global binding of @kbd{M-@kbd{ret}}.  Suggested by
Jens Petersen @samp{<J.Petersen@@qmw.ac.uk>}.

@item
Major modes for writing text are supposed to rebind @kbd{M-@kbd{tab}} to
@code{ispell-complete-word}.  Reported by Jens Petersen
@samp{<J.Petersen@@qmw.ac.uk>}.

@item
Fixed problems with @TeX{}info menus.  Thanks to David Smith
@samp{<maa507@@comp.lancs.ac.uk>} for reporting this.

@item
Code cleanup.   Removed the @file{format} directory, as it did not make
it easier to add new @TeX{} modes, quite the contrary.

@item
Fixed name conflict in @file{auc-tex.el}, reported by Rik Faith
@samp{<faith@@cs.unc.edu>}. 

@item
Fixed some spelling errors.  Thanks to Lawrence R. Dodd
@samp{<dodd@@roebling.poly.edu>}. 

@item
Fixed bug prohibiting non-standard file extensions.  Now recognize
@file{.ltx} by default.  Suggested by Lawrence R. Dodd
@samp{<dodd@@roebling.poly.edu>}. 

@item
Name of the AUC @TeX{} info files changes once again to be useable under
DOS.  This time simply to @file{auctex}.

@item
Documented @code{TeX-outline-extra}.

@item
Could not select command on region from the menu before loading
@file{tex-buf}.  Reported by Uwe Bonnes
@samp{<bon@@lte.e-technik.uni-erlangen.de>}.

@item
Make the hilit19 interface more robust.  Thanks to William Dean Norris
II @samp{<wdn@@dragonfly.cis.ufl.edu>}.

@item
More OS/2 Makefile fixes by Bodo Huckestein
@samp{<bodo@@eu10.mpi-hd.mpg.de>}.

@item
Reimplemented comment support on top of @code{comment-region}, giving
slightly different semantics.
@end itemize
