@ifset rawfile
@include macros.texi
@node Frequently Asked Questions About AUCTeX
@top Frequently Asked Questions about @AUCTeX{}
@end ifset

@c We should switch to sectioning commands instead of items when this
@c list grows.  Keep in mind to formulate short questions because
@c section headings will not be broken in contrast to items.
@enumerate
@item
What versions of Emacs and XEmacs are supported?

@AUCTeX{} was tested with @w{Emacs 21} and @w{XEmacs 21.4.15}.  Older
versions may work but are unsupported.  Older versions of XEmacs might
possibly made to work by updating the @file{xemacs-base} package through
the XEmacs package system.  If you are looking for a recommendation, it
would appear that the smoothest working platform on all operating
systems at the current point of time would be @w{Emacs 21.4}.  At the
time of this writing, however, it has not been released and is still
under development.  The quality of the development version is quite
solid, so we recommend giving it a try.  With a developer version, of
course, you have to be prepared to update in case you managed to get
your snapshot at a bad time.  The second best choice would be the latest
released @w{Emacs 21.3}.  However, Unicode support is less good, there
is no version for the popular GTK toolkit, and the native versions for
Windows and MacOS don't offer toolbar and @previewlatex{} support.

Our success with XEmacs has been less than convincing.  Under the
Windows operating system, nominally the only option for a released,
stable Emacs variant supporting toolbars and @previewlatex{} would be
@{XEmacs 21.4}.  However, code for core functionality like formatting
and syntax highlighting tends to be different and often older than even
@w{Emacs 21.3}, and Unicode support as delivered is problematic at best,
missing on Windows.  Both @AUCTeX{} and XEmacs developers don't hear
much from active users of the combination.  Partly for that reason,
problems tend to go unnoticed for long amounts of time and are often
found, if at all, after releases.  No experiences or recommendations can
be given for beta or developer versions of XEmacs.

@item
Why doesn't the completion or multifile stuff work?

It must be enabled first, insert this in your emacs:

@lisp
(setq-default TeX-master nil)
(setq TeX-parse-self t)
(setq TeX-auto-save t)
@end lisp

Read also the chapters about parsing and multifile documents in the
manual.

@item
Why doesn't @code{TeX-save-document} work?

@code{TeX-check-path} has to contain "./" somewhere.

@item
Why is the information in @file{foo.tex} forgotten when I save
@file{foo.bib}?

For various reasons, @AUCTeX{} ignores the extension when it stores
information about a file, so you should use unique base names for your
files.  E.g. rename @file{foo.bib} to @file{foob.bib}.

@item
Why doesn't @AUCTeX{} signal when processing a document is done?

If the message in the minibuffer stays "Type `C-c C-l' to display
results of compilation.", you probably have a misconfiguration in your
init file (@file{.emacs}, @file{init.el} or similar).  To track this
down either search in the @samp{*Messages*} buffer for an error message
or put @code{(setq debug-on-error t)} as the first line into your init
file, restart Emacs and open a @LaTeX{} file.  Emacs will complain
loudly by opening a debugging buffer as soon as an error occurs.  The
information in the debugging buffer can help you find the cause of the
error in your init file.
@end enumerate
