@include macros.texi
@chapter Introduction to AUCTeX

This section of the @AUCTeX{} manual gives a brief overview of what
@AUCTeX{} is, and the section is also available as a @file{README} file.
It is @strong{not} an attempt to document @AUCTeX{}.  Real documentation
for @AUCTeX{} is available in the rest of the manual, which you can find
in the @file{doc} directory.

Read the @file{INSTALL} or @file{INSTALL.windows} file respectively for
information about how to install @AUCTeX{}.  The files comprise the same
information as the Installation chapter in the @AUCTeX{} manual.

If you are upgrading from the previous version of @AUCTeX{}, the latest
changes can be found in the @file{CHANGES} file.  If you are upgrading
from an older version, read the History chapter in the @AUCTeX{} manual.

@AUCTeX{} is a comprehensive customizable integrated environment for
writing input files for @TeX{}/@LaTeX{}/@ConTeXt{} using GNU Emacs.

@AUCTeX{} lets you run @TeX{}/@LaTeX{}/@ConTeXt{} and
@LaTeX{}/@ConTeXt{}-related tools, such as a output filters or post
processor from inside Emacs.  Especially `running @LaTeX{}' is
interesting, as @AUCTeX{} lets you browse through the errors @TeX{}
reported, while it moves the cursor directly to the reported error, and
displays some documentation for that particular error.  This will even
work when the document is spread over several files.

@AUCTeX{} automatically indents your `@LaTeX{}-source', not only as you
write it --- you can also let it indent and format an entire document.
It has a special outline feature, which can greatly help you `getting an
overview' of a document.

Apart from these special features, @AUCTeX{} provides a large range of
handy Emacs macros, which in several different ways can help you write
your @LaTeX{}/@ConTeXt{} documents fast and painlessly.

All features of @AUCTeX{} are documented using the GNU Emacs online
documentation system.  That is, documentation for any command is just
a key click away!

@AUCTeX{} is written entirely in Emacs-Lisp, and hence you can easily
add new features for your own needs.  It was not made as part of any
particular employment or project (apart from the @AUCTeX{} project
itself).  @AUCTeX{} is distributed under the `GNU Emacs General Public
License' and may therefore almost freely be copied and redistributed.

The next sections are a short introduction to some `actual' features.
For further information, refer to the built-in online documentation of
@AUCTeX{}.

@section Indentation and filling

@AUCTeX{} may automatically indent your document as you write it. By
pressing @key{LFD} instead of @key{RET} at the end of a line, the
current line is indented by two spaces according to the current
environment level, and the cursor is moved down one line.  By pressing
@key{TAB}, the current line is indented, and the cursor stays where it
is.  The well-known Emacs feature @code{fill-paragraph} (@kbd{M-q}) is
reimplemented especially for @AUCTeX{} to follow the indentation (even
in commented parts of the document).  A special command
@code{LaTeX-fill-buffer} lets you indent an entire document like the
well-known C utility indent (this time, only according to the @LaTeX{}
structure @t{:-)}.

@section Completion

By studying your @samp{\documentclass} command (in the top of your
document), and consulting a precompiled list of (La)@TeX{} symbols from
a large number of @TeX{} and @LaTeX{} files, @AUCTeX{} is aware of the
@LaTeX{} commands you should be able to use in this particular document.
This `knowledge' of @AUCTeX{} is used for two purposes.

@enumerate
@item
To make you able to `complete' partly written @LaTeX{} commands. You may
e.g. write @kbd{\renew} and press @kbd{M-@key{TAB}}
(@code{TeX-complete-symbol}), and then @AUCTeX{} will complete the word
@samp{\renewcommand} for you. In case of ambiguity it will display a
list of possible completions.
@item
To aid you inserting environments, that is \begin - \end pairs. This is
done by pressing C-c C-e (@LaTeX{}-environment), and you will be
prompted for which `environment' to insert.
@end enumerate

@section Editing your document

A number of more or less intelligent keyboard macros have been defined
to aid you editing your document.  The most important are listed below.

@table @code
@item LaTeX-environment
(@kbd{C-c C-e}) Insert a @samp{\begin@{@}} --- @samp{\end@{@}} pair as
described above.
@item LaTeX-section
(@kbd{C-c C-s}) Insert one of @samp{\chapter}, @samp{\section}, etc.
@item TeX-font
(@kbd{C-c C-f C-r}, @kbd{C-c C-f C-i}, @kbd{C-c C-f C-b}) Insert one of
@samp{\textrm@{ @}}), @samp{\textit@{ \/@}} @samp{\textbf@{ @}} etc.
@end table

A number of additional functions are available.  But it would be far too
much to write about here.  Refer to the rest of the @AUCTeX{}
documentation for further information.

@section Running @LaTeX{}

When invoking one of the commands @code{TeX-command-master} (@kbd{C-c
C-c}) or @code{TeX-command-region} (@kbd{C-c C-r}) @LaTeX{} is run on
either the entire current document or a given region of it.  The Emacs
view is split in two, and the output of @TeX{} is printed in the second
half of the screen, as you may simultaneously continue editing your
document.  In case @TeX{} finds any errors when processing your input
you can call the function @code{TeX-next-error} (@kbd{C-c `}) which will
move the cursor to the first given error, and display a short
explanatory text along with the message @TeX{} gave.  This procedure may
be repeated until all errors have been displayed.  By pressing @kbd{C-c
C-w} (@code{TeX-toggle-debug-boxes}) you can toggle whether the browser
also should notify over-full/under-full boxes or not.

Once you've successfully formatted your document, you may preview or
print it by invoking @code{TeX-command-master} again.

@section Outlines

Along with @AUCTeX{} comes support for outline mode for Emacs, which
lets you browse the sectioning structure of your document, while you
will still be able to use the full power of the rest of the @AUCTeX{}
functionality.

@section Availability

The most recent version is always available at

@flushright
@url{http://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/auctex/}
@end flushright

WWW users may want to check out the @AUCTeX{} page at

@flushright
@url{http://www.gnu.org/software/auctex/}
@end flushright

@section Contacts

There has been established a mailing list for help, bug reports, feature
requests and general discussion about @AUCTeX{}.  You're very welcome
to join.  Traffic average at an article by day, but they come in bursts.
If you are only interested in information on updates, you could refer to
the newsgroups @samp{comp.text.tex} and @samp{gnu.emacs.sources}.

If you want to contact the @AUCTeX{} mailing list, send mail to
@url{mailto:auc-tex-subscribe@@sunsite.dk} in order to join.  Articles
should be sent to @url{mailto:auc-tex@@sunsite.dk}.

To contact the current maintainers of @AUCTeX{} directly, email
@url{mailto:auc-tex_mgr@@sunsite.dk}.
