@ifset rawfile
@include macros.texi
@end ifset

Installation of @AUCTeX{} under Windows is a bit more complicated, but
we are working to resolve the issues involved. Please report
success/failure to us at @email{auctex-devel@@gnu.org}. Here are the
steps to perform:

@enumerate
@item
If you unpacked the distribution using Winzip or similar, you better
restart using infozip on the @samp{.zip} file, or standard Unix tools
(see the next point) on the @samp{.tar.gz} file: tools that make the
mistake of turning Unix line endings into MSDOS line endings will cause
trouble later in installation and operation.

@item
The installation of @AUCTeX{} will require the MSYS tool set from
@uref{http://www.mingw.org}. If you have the Cygwin tool set from
@uref{http://cygwin.com} installed, that should do just fine as well,
but it is quite larger and slower.

If you are installing @AUCTeX{} with one of those sets for an Emacs
compiled in a different one, you should try to avoid tool-specific path
names like @file{/cygwin/c}.  Instead, use the @file{c:} syntax.  It
might also help to use forward slashes instead of the backward slashes
more typical for @w{MS Windows}: while backward slashes are supposed to
work if properly escaped in the shell, this is one area easily
overlooked by the developers.  The same holds for file or directory
names with spaces in them.    Another noteworthy problem is that you
should be consistent with regard to using upper and lower case
characters for directory names: while Windows ignores any differences in
that area, the configuration scripts don't.

It is appreciated if you report any problems you experienced when
installing @AUCTeX{}, as we are trying our best to make it work
even for platforms that we don't use ourselves.

Compiling Emacs is outside of the scope of this manual.  @AUCTeX{}
itself does not require a @w{C compiler} for installation.

@item
Install a current version of XEmacs (such as 21.4.10) from
@uref{http://www.xemacs.org} or try getting and compiling an
@acronym{CVS} version of @w{GNU Emacs} from
@uref{http://savannah.gnu.org/cvs/?group=emacs,Savannah}.  Precompiled
versions happen to be available at @uref{http://www.crasseux.com/emacs/}
and @uref{http://nqmacs.sf.net/}.

If you disable the installation of @previewlatex{}, you might also use
an @w{Emacs 21} binary from from
@uref{http://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/windows/emacs/}.

@item
You need a working @TeX{} installation.  One popular installation under
Windows is @uref{http://www.miktex.org,Mik@TeX{}}.  Another much more
extensive system is @uref{http://www.tug.org/texlive,@w{@TeX{} live}}
which is rather close to its Unix cousins.

@item
@uref{http://www.perl.org,Perl} is needed for rebuilding the
documentation if you are working with a copy from @acronym{CVS} or have
touched documentation source files.  This is needed for @previewlatex{}
documentation, strictly speaking.

@item
Now the fun stuff starts. Unpack the @AUCTeX{} distribution into some
installation directory. @strong{Do not} unpack it right into your Emacs'
own directories: the installation will copy the material that needs to
be placed there. Keep the installation directory separate: you can
remove its contents after installation completes. Since you are reading
this, you probably have already unpacked @AUCTeX{}, but it should still
be easy to move it elsewhere now.

@item
Ready for takeoff. Start some shell (typically @command{bash}) capable of
running @command{configure}, change into the installation directory and
call @command{./configure} with appropriate options.

Typical options you'll want to specify will be
@table @code
@item --prefix=@var{drive:/path/to/emacs-directory}
which makes sure that (1) the AUCTeX manual will be installed in the
@file{info/} directory of your Emacs installation and (2) the
automatically generated global style hooks will be installed in the
@file{var/} directory of your Emacs installation.  If you are collecting
stuff like that in a central directory hierarchy (not untypical with
Cygwin), you might want to specify that here instead.  You stand a good
chance that this will be the only option you need to supply, as long as
your @TeX{}-related executables are in your system path, which they
better be for @AUCTeX{}'s operation, anyway.

@item --with-emacs
if you are installing for a version of Emacs.  You can use
@samp{--with-emacs=@var{/path/to/emacs}} to specify the name of the
installed Emacs executable, complete with its path if necessary (if
Emacs is not within a directory specified in your @var{PATH} environment
setting).

@item --with-xemacs
if you are installing for a version of XEmacs.  Again, you can use
@samp{--with-xemacs=@var{/path/to/xemacs}} to specify the name of the
installed XEmacs executable complete with its path if necessary.  It may
also be necessary to specify this option if a copy of Emacs is found in
your @var{PATH} environment setting, but you still would like to install
a copy of @AUCTeX{} for XEmacs.

@item --with-lispdir=@var{/dir}
This may be needed for GNU Emacs installation, but hopefully
@command{configure} should figure this out by itself. Don't use this for
XEmacs, rather use

@item --with-packagedir=@var{/dir}
which gives the location of the package directory for XEmacs where stuff
should be installed. Again, hopefully this is not necessary to specify.

@item --with-auto-dir=@var{/dir}
Directory containing automatically generated information.  You should
not normally need to set this, as @samp{--prefix} should take care of
this.
@end table

Some additional information about the above options may be found in
@ifset rawfile
the `Configure' section in the @file{INSTALL} file.
@end ifset
@ifclear rawfile
@ref{Configure}.
@end ifclear

@item
Run @command{make} in the installation directory.
	
@item
Run @code{make install} in the installation directory.

@item
For GNU Emacs, the recommended way to activate @AUCTeX{} is to add the
following line to your @file{.emacs} file:

@example
(require 'tex-site)
@end example

The configuration for Windows systems is probably not quite fitting.
Instead of loading @file{tex-site.el} in that manner, you might want to
load @file{tex-mik.el} (for Mik@TeX{}) or @file{tex-fptex} (for
fp@TeX{}) instead.  Those will lead to somewhat more appropriate values
for your system.  You can always use

@example
  @kbd{M-x customize-group @key{RET} AUCTeX @key{RET}}
@end example

in order to customize more stuff, or use the @samp{Customize} menu.

@item
Load a @file{.tex} file Emacs or XEmacs and see if you get the
@samp{Command} menu. Try using that to @LaTeX{} the file.

@end enumerate
Well, that about is all.  Have fun!
